#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Welcome to the OPS Wiki=

==Introduction==

This Wiki is the resource for learning OPS (Open Publish-Subscribe), which is a middleware aimed to facilitate message based communication in embedded distributed software systems. OPS offers a typed topic publish-subscribe model which allows for asynchronous, efficient and type secure communication between processes running on multiple platforms written in multiple programming languages.  

The communication model of OPS is a typed topic publish-subscribe model. That means that processes that take part in the ops communication can act as publishers or subscribers to different topics. Data published on a certain topic will be delivered to all subscribers to that topic in a way that hides the publishers from the subscribers and vice versa. By ensuring this anonymity the middleware allows for extremely low coupling between different system participants which enables software reuse, modularity, redundancy, language and platform heterogeneity, no single point of failure systems, one-to-many, many-to-one and many-to-many communications. 
As mentioned above, OPS offers typed topics, which in addition to connecting publishers and subscribers also dictates the format of the data that is sent between them. The messages sent in OPS are  data classes that are defined by the system developers in a data definition language called OPS IDL. These data classes may be complex constructs, with inheritence, dynamic arrays, strings, classes of classes and arrays of classes. These data classes are used to auto generate source code for the target programming language that allows for communicating this data in a simple and secure way. The complexity of serializing and deserializing these classes and to be able to send them across the network is completely hidden from the participants, and the classes can be used in an object oriented and type safe way in the application layer of the participants.

===Related work===
The idea of OPS is not unique, it is highly inspired by OMG's [http://portals.omg.org/dds DDS] (Data Distribution Service) specification both in terms of functionality, API's, ideas and terminology. What OPS offers is an easier to learn and use variant than the DDS specification and its implementations available. Moreover, by using simple threading models and protocol, the OPS core is easy to understand both in terms of learning to use it, but also to understand what consequences it has on the systems that use it. By offering plugin mechanisms, OPS still ensures that complicated distributed systems with unique demands can be targeted.  


==New to Publish/Subscribe?==
 Here are some resources to get you started:
 * http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publish/subscribe
 * http://www.cse.wustl.edu/~corsaro/papers/pubsubChapter.pdf

==Acknowlegments==
 OPS makes heavy use of the following other Open Source Projects:
 * http://www.netbeans.org , the tools for OPS are built on Netbeans Platform. 
 * http://www.boost.org , The C++ implementation of OPS use several boost libraries to keep platform independant. Most notable, boost.asio.

==Getting started with OPS==
 * [Installation]
 * [SimpleCpp First simple example]